---
title: Patch Management
description: In the relentless digital sprawl of the cyberpunk cityscape, Patch Management acts as the city's vigilant caretaker, patching the fractured walls of the virtual fortress with precision, fortifying the urban data grid against the encroaching chaos of cyber threats and ensuring a resilient defense against the neon-lit shadows of the underworld.
---

**Patch Management** is the process of systematically applying updates and fixes to software and systems to address vulnerabilities, improve functionality, and ensure overall security. It involves identifying, acquiring, testing, and deploying patches across an organization’s IT environment.

## Key Components:

1. **Identification**:
   - **Vulnerability Assessment**: Regularly scanning systems to identify which software and applications require patches.
   - **Vendor Notifications**: Staying updated on new patches and updates released by software vendors through notifications and bulletins.

2. **Evaluation**:
   - **Patch Assessment**: Reviewing the relevance and impact of patches to determine their importance and potential impact on systems.
   - **Risk Analysis**: Assessing the risk associated with each patch, including potential conflicts with existing systems and applications.

3. **Testing**:
   - **Test Environments**: Applying patches in a controlled test environment to verify compatibility and functionality before deployment.
   - **Impact Assessment**: Ensuring that patches do not disrupt normal operations or introduce new issues.

4. **Deployment**:
   - **Rollout Strategy**: Deploying patches across the organization according to a planned schedule or prioritization based on risk and criticality.
   - **Automated Deployment**: Utilizing automated tools and systems to streamline the patch deployment process and reduce manual effort.

5. **Verification**:
   - **Post-Deployment Testing**: Verifying that patches have been successfully applied and systems are functioning correctly.
   - **Monitoring**: Continuously monitoring systems for any issues or side effects resulting from the applied patches.

6. **Documentation and Reporting**:
   - **Documentation**: Keeping detailed records of patches applied, including versions, deployment dates, and any issues encountered.
   - **Reporting**: Generating reports on patch status, compliance, and effectiveness for management and audit purposes.

7. **Continuous Improvement**:
   - **Feedback Loop**: Using insights and lessons learned from previous patching activities to improve processes and address any recurring issues.
   - **Policy Updates**: Revising patch management policies and procedures based on emerging threats and changes in the IT environment.


## Windows Server Update Service

::callout
---
icon: i-heroicons-light-bulb
target: _blank
to: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-server-update-services/get-started/windows-server-update-services-wsus
---
Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) enables information technology administrators to deploy the latest Microsoft product updates.
::

## Jamf

::callout
---
icon: i-heroicons-light-bulb
target: _blank
to: https://www.jamf.com/lp/jamf-pro/?utm_source=google&utm_medium=cpc&utm_content=10575688728_104605771876_jamf%20pro_e_c_g&attr=google_ads-brand-search-pro&gad_source=1&gclid=CjwKCAjwiaa2BhAiEiwAQBgyHjfv0k_8J4yMiWWjqwKH05WR4YYH70s-XwCVLRFJldTe_y4fRWMemhoCM5EQAvD_BwE
---
Jamf Pro for Apple Device Management. 
::

## Landscape

::callout
---
icon: i-heroicons-light-bulb
target: _blank
to: https://ubuntu.com/landscape
---
Landscape automates security patching, auditing, access management and compliance tasks across your Ubuntu estate.
::
