---
title: System Hardening
description: Armoring the digital fortress, stripping it down to bare, unbreakable steel, impervious to the cyber shadows that lurk in the net.
---

**System hardening** involves the process of securing a system by reducing its attack surface, typically through the removal of unnecessary software, disabling non-essential services, and applying security patches to close vulnerabilities. This makes it more difficult for attackers to exploit weaknesses and gain unauthorized access.

Let's illustrate this by hardening a Windows Server.

## Harden a Windows Server:

1. **Apply the Latest Updates and Patches**:

   - Ensure the server is fully updated with the latest security patches from Microsoft to fix known vulnerabilities.

2. **Disable Unnecessary Services**:

   - Review the running services and disable any that are not required for the server’s role, reducing potential entry points.

3. **Configure Windows Firewall**:

   - Set up the Windows Firewall to block all incoming connections by default and only allow necessary traffic through specific ports.

4. **Enable and Configure Security Policies**:

   - Use Group Policy to enforce password complexity, account lockout policies, and restrict administrative privileges.
   - Implement auditing policies to monitor and log suspicious activities.

5. **Remove Unnecessary Software**:

   - Uninstall any non-essential software or features that increase the attack surface.

6. **Secure Remote Access**:

   - Limit remote access to the server by configuring Remote Desktop Services (RDP) with Network Level Authentication (NLA) and strong multi-factor authentication.
   - Restrict RDP access to specific IP addresses and use VPNs for added security.

7. **Implement Encryption**:

   - Enable BitLocker to encrypt the server’s drives, protecting data at rest from unauthorized access.

8. **Disable Legacy Protocols**:

   - Turn off outdated protocols such as SMBv1, which are known to have vulnerabilities.

9. **Regular Backups**:
   - Schedule regular backups of the server and ensure the backup files are stored securely, ready for disaster recovery.
