---
title: Anomaly Detection
description: In the pulse of the cyber-city, Anomaly Detection systems are the digital watchmen, constantly scanning for glitches in the matrix, catching the whispers of rogue data streams and hunting down intrusions that stray from the norm, ensuring the city's virtual walls remain unbreached.
---

Anomaly detection is a process used to identify patterns or behaviors in data that significantly deviate from the expected norm. In cybersecurity, it's employed to detect unusual activity that could indicate a potential security threat, such as unauthorized access, malware activity, or network breaches. This technique is critical for identifying issues that standard detection methods might miss, offering an extra layer of protection by highlighting irregularities in real-time.


## **Key Components:**

1. **Data Collection:**
   - **Sources**: Collecting data from network traffic, user activities, application logs, and system performance metrics.
   - **Types**: Logs, network traffic flows, system events, and user behavior analytics.

2. **Baseline Creation:**
   - **Normal Behavior**: Establishing a baseline of what is considered normal activity for systems and users, based on historical data.
   - **Historical Analysis**: Analyzing past data to define what typical patterns look like, aiding in the identification of outliers.

3. **Detection Techniques:**
   - **Statistical Models**: Using statistical methods like standard deviation or mean-based thresholds to detect anomalies.
   - **Machine Learning**: Employing algorithms that learn from data to detect unusual patterns that deviate from the baseline.
   - **Heuristics**: Applying rules-based logic to flag activities that fall outside of pre-defined acceptable ranges.

4. **Alerting and Response:**
   - **Real-Time Alerts**: Generating alerts when anomalies are detected, enabling quick response to potential threats.
   - **Investigation**: Analyzing the nature of the anomaly to determine if it poses a genuine threat or if it's a false positive.

5. **Continuous Learning:**
   - **Feedback Mechanism**: Continuously refining detection models based on new data and feedback from security teams.
   - **Adaptive Thresholds**: Adjusting detection thresholds dynamically as systems and user behaviors evolve.

## **Anomaly Detection vs. Behavioral Analytics:**

- **Anomaly Detection:** Identifies outliers or deviations from normal patterns to spot potential threats.
- **Behavioral Analytics:** Analyzes user or entity behavior over time, often using anomaly detection to detect suspicious activities.

## Elastic Security

::callout
---
icon: i-heroicons-light-bulb
target: _blank
to: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/machine-learning/current/ml-ad-overview.html
---
You can use Elastic Stack machine learning features to analyze time series data and identify anomalous patterns in your data set.
::

## Exabeam

::callout
---
icon: i-heroicons-light-bulb
target: _blank
to: https://www.exabeam.com/
---
Prepare for Your Future With AI-Driven Security Operations. Industry-leading AI and automation optimized for TDIR 
::