---
title: Blue Teams
description: The vigilant defenders who fortify the perimeter and repel attacks, ensuring the digital city remains secure.
---

## **Blue Team (Defenders)**

**Purpose**: To protect and defend the organization’s assets through robust security measures and incident response.

**Operationele Beveiliging (Blue Teaming)**

- **Defensive Security Measures**
  - Network Segmentation
  - System Hardening
  - Encryption Key Management
  - Privileged Access Management (PAM)
  - Zero Trust Network Access (ZTNA)
  - Data Loss Prevention (DLP)
  - Security Automation and Orchestration
    - **SIEM (Security Information and Event Management)**
    - Security Orchestration Automation and Response (SOAR)
    - Extended Detection and Response (XDR)
    - UEBA?
    - TDIR?
  - Behavioral Analytics
  - Intrusion Detection System (IDS)
  - Intrusion Prevention System (IPS)
  - Security Incident Response Plan (SIRP)
  - Network Monitoring
  - Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR)
  - Vulnerability Management
  - Patch Management
  - Threat Intelligence
  - Security Awareness Training
  - Log Management
  - Anomaly Detection
  - Cloud Security Posture Management (CSPM)

- **Identity and Access Management**
  - Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)
  - Single Sign-On (SSO)
  - Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)
  - Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC)
  - Federated Identity Management
  - Access Control Mechanisms
  - Access Review
  - User Provisioning and De-provisioning
  - Password Management
  - Privileged User Monitoring
  - Identity Federation
  - Access Request Management
  - Authentication Protocols
  - User Behavior Analytics (UBA)
  - Identity Governance and Administration (IGA)
  - Privileged Access Management (PAM)

**Beveiliging en Risicobeheer**

- **Risk Assessment and Management Frameworks**
  - FAIR (Factor Analysis of Information Risk)
  - CRAMM (CCTA Risk Analysis and Management Method)
  - MITRE Shield
  - Incident Management
  - Threat Modeling
  - Business Continuity Planning (BCP)
  - Disaster Recovery Planning (DRP)
  - Data Classification
  - Security Posture Management
  - Third-Party Risk Management
  - Security Metrics and Reporting

## **Core Principles**

1. **Non-Repudiation**: Ensures that actions or transactions cannot be denied by the parties involved. This principle often involves logging and authentication mechanisms.

2. **Accountability**: Ensures that actions can be traced back to an individual or entity, often implemented through logging and monitoring.

3. **Authentication**: Verifies the identity of users or systems to ensure that they are who they claim to be.

4. **Authorization**: Determines what actions or resources a user or system is allowed to access after authentication.

5. **Auditing**: Involves tracking and reviewing activities to ensure compliance with policies and to detect anomalies or breaches.

6. **Privacy**: Protects personal and sensitive information from unauthorized access or disclosure.

7. **Resilience**: Focuses on the ability of systems to recover from disruptions and continue operating, often related to business continuity and disaster recovery.

8. **Risk Management**: Involves identifying, assessing, and mitigating risks to protect information systems.

9. **Defense in Depth**: Employs multiple layers of security controls to protect information and systems, so that if one layer fails, others will still provide protection.

10. **Least Privilege**: Ensures that users and systems have the minimum level of access necessary to perform their functions, reducing the risk of abuse or exploitation.

11. **Segregation of Duties**: Separates tasks and privileges among different individuals to reduce the risk of fraud and errors.

12. **Security by Design**: Incorporates security considerations into the design and development of systems and processes from the outset.

These principles collectively help create a robust security posture and are applied across various aspects of information security management.

## **Group By Core Principles**

1. **Confidentiality**
   - **Encryption Key Management**
   - **Data Loss Prevention (DLP)**
   - **Cloud Security Posture Management (CSPM)**

2. **Integrity**
   - **System Hardening**
   - **Patch Management**
   - **Vulnerability Management**
   - **Behavioral Analytics**
   - **Anomaly Detection**
   - **Log Management**

3. **Availability**
   - **Network Monitoring**
   - **Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR)**
   - **Security Incident Response Plan (SIRP)**
   - **Business Continuity Planning (BCP)**
   - **Disaster Recovery Planning (DRP)**

4. **Authentication**
   - **Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)**
   - **Single Sign-On (SSO)**
   - **Authentication Protocols**

5. **Authorization**
   - **Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)**
   - **Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC)**
   - **Privileged Access Management (PAM)**
   - **Access Control Mechanisms**
   - **Access Review**
   - **User Provisioning and De-provisioning**

6. **Accountability**
   - **Security Information and Event Management (SIEM)**
   - **Security Orchestration Automation and Response (SOAR)**
   - **Extended Detection and Response (XDR)**
   - **Privileged User Monitoring**
   - **Identity Governance and Administration (IGA)**

7. **Risk Management**
   - **Risk Assessment and Management Frameworks**
     - FAIR (Factor Analysis of Information Risk)
     - CRAMM (CCTA Risk Analysis and Management Method)
     - MITRE Shield
   - **Threat Modeling**
   - **Third-Party Risk Management**

8. **Security Posture Management**
   - **Security Awareness Training**
   - **Identity and Access Management (IAM)**
   - **Access Request Management**
   - **User Behavior Analytics (UBA)**
   - **Security Metrics and Reporting**

9. **Resilience**
   - **Security Automation and Orchestration**
   - **Incident Management**
   - **Security Incident Response Plan (SIRP)**
