---
title: Mitigation Strategy
description: This is like putting up a strong wall to protect your toys from sneaky thieves. It uses smart tools and tricks to keep bad guys away and make sure your things stay safe.
---

A mitigation strategy involves measures and policies to protect an organization from cyberattacks, combining technology and best practices to defend systems and data.

## Multifactor Authentication

Multifactor authentication improves security by requiring multiple forms of identification: something the user knows (like a password), something the user is (like a fingerprint), and something the user has (like a phone or hardware key). For example, a bank might ask for a password and a security code sent to the user’s phone to access their account.

## Browser Security

Enhance browser security by:

-  Blocking unauthorized extensions
-  Allowing only approved browsers
-  Using content filters to block harmful sites
-  Keeping browsers updated

## Application Security

Enhance application security by:

-  **Patching Promptly**: Update apps regularly to fix vulnerabilities.
-  **Application Configuration**: Change default passwords and settings to prevent exploits.
-  **Privacy Settings**: Adjust settings to control data collection.
-  **Cookies**: Clean up cookies or use incognito browsing for extra security.
-  **Using Verified Apps**: Download apps only from trusted stores.

## Device Security

Enhance device security by:

-  **Device Hardening**: Keep devices updated and secure with passwords or biometric locks.
-  **Encryption**: Encrypts data to keep it safe from unauthorized access.
-  **Limit App Access**: Lock devices when not in use to protect sensitive apps.

## Network Security

Enhance network security by:

-  **Firewall**: Controls network traffic to block harmful data.
-  **Antivirus**: Detects and removes malware.
-  **NAC**: Controls which devices can access the network.
-  **Network Segmentation**: Isolates network sections for extra protection.
-  **VPN**: Secures your internet connection, especially on public Wi-Fi.
-  **Wi-Fi Encryption**: Secures Wi-Fi traffic with encryption.

## Educate Users

Train users to:

-  Spot suspicious messages.
-  Avoid sharing personal information.
-  Lock devices when not in use.
-  Only store, share, and remove data according to the organization's policies.

## Threat Intelligence

Use threat intelligence to:

-  Monitor for potential attacks.
-  Gather data on vulnerabilities.
-  Apply security policies based on insights.
-  Employ tools to detect and respond to threats.

## Wave the Blue Flag

If you're ready to delve deeper into these vital defensive maneuvers and master the dark art of cyber warfare, I'd like to invite you over to the [Blue Team](/knowledge-base/digital-fortress/blue-team/fortify/network-segmentation)
