---
title: IDS
description: In the labyrinth of the cyber-metropolis, the IDS acts as the city’s digital sentinel, scanning the endless streams of data for rogue signals and hidden threats, ready to sound the alarm at the first sign of an intruder breaching the perimeter.**
---

**Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS)** are security tools designed to monitor network traffic and system activities for signs of malicious behavior or policy violations. IDS solutions analyze data to detect potential threats and generate alerts, helping security teams identify and respond to suspicious activities before they can cause significant harm.

## Key Components:

1. **Data Collection**:
   - **Network Traffic**: Monitors data packets moving across the network.
   - **System Logs**: Analyzes log files from servers, applications, and operating systems.

2. **Threat Detection**:
   - **Signature-Based Detection**: Uses predefined signatures of known threats to identify malicious activities. This method is effective for detecting known attacks but may struggle with new or modified threats.
   - **Anomaly-Based Detection**: Establishes a baseline of normal network or system behavior and identifies deviations from this baseline. This approach can detect unknown threats by spotting unusual activities.

3. **Alert Generation**:
   - **Alerts**: Generates notifications when suspicious activities or anomalies are detected, providing details about the potential threat and its severity.

4. **Incident Response Integration**:
   - **Response Actions**: Often integrates with other security systems to automate or facilitate response actions, such as blocking traffic or initiating further investigations.

5. **Logging and Reporting**:
   - **Record Keeping**: Logs detected threats and generates reports for analysis, compliance, and continuous improvement of security measures.

## Types of IDS

1. **Network-Based IDS (NIDS)**:
   - **Deployment**: Monitors network traffic in real-time to detect malicious activities and attacks.
   - **Usage**: Ideal for detecting threats that are transmitted over the network, such as malware and unauthorized access attempts.

2. **Host-Based IDS (HIDS)**:
   - **Deployment**: Installed on individual hosts (servers or workstations) to monitor and analyze activities on that specific system.
   - **Usage**: Effective for detecting internal threats and suspicious activities specific to a particular host, such as unauthorized file changes or unusual processes.

## Zeek

::callout
---
icon: i-heroicons-light-bulb
target: _blank
to: https://zeek.org/
---
An Open Source Network Security Monitoring Tool
::
