---
title: Variables
description: Think of them as containers where you can store and label different types of information.
---

We can declare variables to store data by using the `var`, `let`, or `const` keywords.

## A real-life analogy

Variables are like containers/boxes where you can store and label different types of information. That information can be a string of characters like those that makeup your name or a number that can be used in Math equations, like your age, or a variety of other types.

::card
---
title: Variable
icon: i-grommet-icons:cli
to: https://javascript.info/variables
target: _blank
---
A `variable` is a “named storage” for data. We can use variables to store goodies, visitors, and other data.
::



## let

let – is a modern variable declaration, when the value is changed, the old data is removed from the box.

```js
let message = 'Hello!'; // define the variable and assign the value

alert(message); // Hello!
```

## var

var – is an old-school variable declaration. Normally we don’t use it at all, but we’ll cover subtle differences from let in the chapter [The old "var"](https://javascript.info/var), just in case you need them.

```js
if (true) {
  var test = true; // use "var" instead of "let"
}

alert(test); // true, the variable lives after if
```

## const

const – is like let, but the value of the variable can’t be changed.

```js
const BIRTHDAY = '18.04.1982';

const age = someCode(BIRTHDAY);
```

::note
capital-named constants are only used as aliases for “hard-coded” values. const evaluated in run-time does not need to be written in capital.
::

## Naming Things

Variables should be named in a way that allows us to easily understand what’s inside them, there are some [limitations](https://javascript.info/variables#variable-naming).

::caution
Variable naming is one of the most important and complex skills in programming. A glance at variable names can reveal which code was written by a beginner versus an experienced developer.
::
