---
title: Collaboration
description: Teamwork makes the dream work.
---

## Git Branch

Branches are a way for developers to work on different features of a codebase on a seperate branch.

That way they're not polluting the main and tested working code and can branch off from the main three trunk and do their own thing.

It's pretty common in the real world to rename the master branch to the main branch:

```[termimal]
git branch -M main
```

List out branches:

```[termimal]
git branch
```

Create a new branch:

```[termimal]
git branch awesome
```

Delete it in a more safer way and only delete it if it hasn't been merged in the to master branch or if it has no changes on it.

Delete a branch -d

```
git branch -d awesome
```

Delete it in a no turning back manner.

```
git branch -D awesome
```

## Git Checkout

Move between branches in git

Move into a branch:

```shell
git checkout <branch>
```

Create a new branch and move into it:

```shell
git checkout -b awesome
```

Move to previous branch

```shell
git checkout -
```

## Git Merge

Follow these steps to merge a feature branch into the main branch and then delete it.

### Step 1: Commit Your Changes
Ensure that all changes are committed on your current branch. Use the following commands:

```shell
git add .
git commit -m "feat(alert): add icon color control prop for dynamic customization"
```

### Step 2: Switch to the Main Branch
Switch to the `main` branch so you can prepare for the merge:

```shell
git checkout main
```

### Step 3: Don't Forget To Update the Main Branch
Pull the latest changes from the remote repo locally to ensure you have the latest commit.
```shell
git pulll
```

### Step 4: Merge the Feature Branch into Main
Merge the feature branch (replace `feature-branch` with the actual name of your branch):

```shell
git merge feature-branch
```

### Step 5: Delete the Branch Locally
Delete the feature branch locally:

```shell
git branch -d feature-branch
```

### Step 6: Delete the Branch from the Remote Repository
Delete the feature branch from the remote repository:

```shell
git push origin --delete feature-branch
```

Replace `feature-branch` with the name of your branch in the commands above. This ensures that the branch is removed both locally and from the remote repository.

## How Merge Conflicts Happen

Create a new branch and move into it:

Merge conflicts happen when two commits affect the same line of code at the same time.

1 Feature branch modifies line 5 and commits.
2 Master branch modifies line 5 and commits.
3 Master branch tries to merge feature branch.

Here’s how a merge conflict looks from the command line:

```
git branch feature
# make some changes
git commit -am "awesome branch stuff"

git checkout master
# make some changes to same code
git commit -am "master branch stuff"

git merge feature
# CONFLICT!
```

## Explore a Merge Conflict

Use git diff to compare the changes in the feature branch and master branch.

```[shell]
git diff
```

## Fix A Merge Conflict

git commit -am "master branch stuff"

```[shell]
git commit -am "master branch stuff"
```

If you’re not sure, you can abort:

```
git merge --abort
```

## Git Fork

What the hell is a fork on GitHub?

If your serious about working on an open source project you may want your own version of the code, hosted on hithub.

When you click the button to fork a repo on github. It will copy that repo to your own account.

That allows you to make changes to it without affection your own repository.

At the same time it maintains a length to the original repo where you can fetch updates.

The original is know as the upstream repository.

A common thing developers will do is work on a repo to develop some kind of new feature then send a pull request to merge that code into the original from the fork.

The author from the original can then review your changes and decide wheter or not they want to merge your code.

## The 3 Diff File Areas

### Working DIR

Your current working area

### Staging Area

Is created when using `git add `comment and view with `git tab`

### Commits

The state of files which you commited previously
