---
title: package.json
icon: 'i-octicon:file-24'
description: The `package.json` file—a core of your project’s identity, managing dependencies, scripts, and essential metadata that powers the heartbeat of your JavaScript or Node.js project.
---

The `package.json` file is a configuration file used by Node.js and JavaScript projects to manage dependencies, project metadata, scripts, and configuration. It serves as a roadmap for anyone looking to understand and work with your project.

This file includes key information about your project, such as the name, version, and author, along with dependencies and scripts for building, testing, and deploying your project.

## ::callout

icon: i-vscode-icons:file-type-npm
target: \_blank
to: https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v9/configuring-npm/package-json

---

[Read more about the `package.json` file on `NPM`]()
::

Or go in to more detail.

## ::callout

icon: i-vscode-icons:file-type-light-pnpm
target: \_blank
to: https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v9/configuring-npm/package-json

---

[For extended functionality. Read more on `PNPM`]()
::

```json [package.json]
{
	"name": "nameless",
	"private": true,
	"url": "https://github.com/skkylimits/Nameless/issues",
	"type": "module",
	"scripts": {
		"build": "nuxt build",
		"dev": "nuxt dev",
		"generate": "nuxt generate",
		"preview": "nuxt preview",
		"postinstall": "nuxt prepare",
		"lint": "eslint .",
		"typecheck": "nuxt typecheck",
		"test": ""
	},
	"dependencies": {
		"@iconify-json/simple-icons": "^1.1.109",
		"@iconify-json/vscode-icons": "^1.2.1",
		"@nuxt/content": "^2.13.1",
		"@nuxt/fonts": "^0.7.1",
		"@nuxt/image": "^1.7.0",
		"@nuxt/ui-pro": "^1.3.1",
		"nuxt": "^3.12.3",
		"nuxt-og-image": "^3.0.0-rc.64",
		"tailwindcss": "^3.4.10"
	},
	"devDependencies": {
		"@nuxt/eslint": "^0.3.13",
		"@nuxthq/studio": "^2.0.3",
		"eslint": "^9.6.0",
		"vue-tsc": "^2.0.26"
	},
	"packageManager": "pnpm@9.6.0+sha512.38dc6fba8dba35b39340b9700112c2fe1e12f10b17134715a4aa98ccf7bb035e76fd981cf0bb384dfa98f8d6af5481c2bef2f4266a24bfa20c34eb7147ce0b5e"
}
```

## Think of Your Project Like a Store

Imagine your project as a store where each section plays a specific role in how it runs.

### package.json (Store Management)

The `package.json` file is like your store's management plan, handling what the store needs to function smoothly. This includes:

- **Suppliers**: Your dependencies are like suppliers that provide the tools and resources your store needs.
- **Staff Routines**: Your scripts define the routines that your staff follows daily (for example, opening, cleaning, and closing the store).

With the `package.json` file, you have a clear structure to manage all aspects of your project.

### Dependencies (Essentials for Running the Store)

These are essentials for your project, required at all times.

When you need essential tools to keep your store (project) operational for visitors (end-users).

Dependencies in `package.json` are like the essential products on your store shelves. Just as a store needs inventory to serve customers, your project needs libraries and frameworks to function. Dependencies are required in both development and production environments. Examples include:

- **"nuxt"** for managing both backend and frontend server requests.
- **"tailwind"** for styling and designing the look of your website.

### DevDependencies (Tools for Store Upkeep)

These are tools and libraries only needed during development.

For maintenance tools that help in building and testing the store but aren’t needed once it’s open to the public.

DevDependencies are like tools used for store maintenance or setup tasks that customers don’t directly see. They’re only needed during development and testing. Examples include:

- "vitest" for testing the store’s functionality.
- "eslint" for organizing and formatting code project wide.

### Scripts (Store Routines)

Commands for setting up routines/workflow, such as building and testing your project.

Scripts in `package.json` define commands for common project tasks, similar to store routines. They outline specific workflows like:

- `start`: Opening the store by running the server.
- `build`: Organizing the shelves by bundling code.
- `test`: Performing store checks to ensure everything is in working order.

By organizing these sections, you can ensure that your project runs smoothly, with all the essential resources and tools properly managed.

## "private": true

The "private": true setting in package.json marks a package as private, preventing it from being published to npm. This helps keep internal or sensitive projects from being accidentally shared publicly. It’s also common in monorepos for packages meant only for internal use.

1. **Prevents Publishing**: Stops accidental npm publication of private code.
2. **For Internal Use**: Indicates the project is for internal purposes only.
3. **Common in Monorepos**: Used for packages meant only within a monorepo setup.

## bugs

As stated [in the official docs](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v9/configuring-npm/package-json#bugs).

The url to your project's issue tracker and / or the email address to which issues should be reported. These are helpful for people who encounter issues with your package.

```json
{
	"url": "https://github.com/owner/project/issues",
	"email": "project@hostname.com"
}
```

You can specify either one or both values. If you want to provide only a url, you can specify the value for "bugs" as a simple string instead of an object.

If a url is provided, it will be used by the `npm bugs` command.

## "type": module

The `"type": "module"` field in `package.json` tells Node.js that the project uses **ECMAScript modules (ESM)**.

### What it does:

- **Enables ESM Syntax**: Allows you to use modern JavaScript features like `import` and `export` instead of `require` and `module.exports`.
- **Module Resolution**: Instructs Node.js to treat `.js` files as ES modules, enabling you to write code that follows the ES module standard.

Without this, Node.js defaults to CommonJS modules, using `require` and `module.exports`. This field is essential for using ESM in Node.js projects.

## "packageManager"

The `"packageManager"` field in the `package.json` specifies which package manager is used for the project, along with its version and, in this case, a checksum to ensure **ensures consistency**.

IMPORTANT: It’s recommended to include it for consistency across teams and environments.

### Breakdown:

- **`"pnpm@9.6.0"`**: This part specifies that the project is using **pnpm** (a fast, disk space-efficient package manager) and indicates the required version (`9.6.0`).
- **Checksum** (`sha512.38dc6fba...`): The checksum verifies the integrity of the specific pnpm version used, ensuring that the exact version of pnpm is installed without tampering.

### Why it’s used:

- **Ensures consistency**: It ensures everyone working on the project uses the same version of pnpm, preventing version conflicts.
- **Package integrity**: The checksum helps confirm that the version of pnpm installed matches the specified one, making sure there are no integrity issues.
