---
title: Mitigation Strategy
description: This is like putting up a strong wall to protect your toys from sneaky thieves. It uses smart tools and tricks to keep bad guys away and make sure your things stay safe.
---

A mitigation strategy involves measures and policies to protect an organization from cyberattacks, combining technology and best practices to defend systems and data.

## Multifactor Authentication

Multifactor authentication improves security by requiring multiple forms of identification: something the user knows (like a password), something the user is (like a fingerprint), and something the user has (like a phone or hardware key). For example, a bank might ask for a password and a security code sent to the user’s phone to access their account.

## Browser Security

Enhance browser security by:

- Blocking unauthorized extensions.
- Allowing only approved browsers.
- Using content filters to block harmful sites.
- Keeping browsers updated.

## Applcaition Security

## Network Security

## Device Security

## Educate Users

Train users to:

- Spot suspicious messages.
- Avoid sharing personal information.
- Lock devices when not in use.
- Only store, share, and remove data according to the organization's policies.

## Threat Intelligence

Use threat intelligence to:

- Monitor for potential attacks.
- Gather data on vulnerabilities.
- Apply security policies based on insights.
- Employ tools to detect and respond to threats.

## Wave the Blue Flag

If you're ready to delve deeper into these vital defensive maneuvers and master the dark art of cyber warfare, I'd like to invite you over to the [Blue Team](/knowledge-base/digital-fortress/blue-team/fortify/network-segmentation)
