---
title: Examination
description: We dive deep into the digital abyss, extracting hidden truths from the ghostly traces left behind
icon: i-maki:police
---

We are ready to investigate the disk image. Windows will automatically recognize the disk image and know how to handle it.

However, mounting it directly is not recommended, as doing so would grant read and write access, potentially altering the evidence—something we must avoid at all costs.

## Mounting the Disk Image (AIM)

We're now ready, after hashing the VHD, to mount the disk image using the `AIM` tool.

### Mount Options

1. **Write Temporary**: We still want to write to the disk, but not make it permanent, so we use this option.
2. **Store Differencing Data in Host RAM**: Ensure that the differencing data is stored in the host RAM to avoid altering the original disk image.

Press **OK** to proceed.

:::warning
Click yes when the Disk read-only & disk offline warning appears.
:::

Now when you navigate the file explorer, you will see the mounted disk image as a new drive.

### Disk Management

We can see an overview of the drives that are attached to the system, besides disk zero, which contains the C: drive (OS).

> Now we can proceed with the examination of the disk image.

## Triage Collection (KAPE)

First things first. We want to collect DA data from the mounted image and store it in a triage package.

To do so, open the KAPE tool and select target options:

- **Target Source**: Mounted disk image
- **Target Destination**: `C:/Cases`

### Targets

Select compound packages, which means we can select a combination of multiple targets that will be executed in one go.

Type in search `event` and you'll see a bunch of targets.

The one we'll go for, which is a very standard way of collecting DA data, is `KapeTriage`.

In the app folder `\kape\Targets\Windows\KapeTriage.ini`, each target is defined individually. If you open it, you'll see exactly what it does.

The same goes for `\kape\Targets\Windows\KapeTriage\eventlogs.ini`.

### Container

We can choose to wrap it up in a container, such as a zip file or VHD/X.

### VSC

We can process shadow copies.

### Current Command Line

You can now copy the current command line.

Before running this command, we need to collect the triage package and individually analyze the included artifacts.

### Module

There is another way to automate this process for more advanced processing of the data, which is available in the module option.

We can select the tools and run them against the targets that we are collecting in one go. This will provide us with an output, for example, a CSV file.

::tip
This is a quick way to get results if we know what we are looking for and are familiar with the tools. We could select this package, create a triage collection, and run those tools against the collection to get the results right away.
::

> We don't need to do that just now.

### Execute

Now run the execute button and the command will be executed.

### Output

The output will be stored in the `C:/Cases` folder.

It will now have created the triage package and stored it in the cases folder so we can work with it.
