---
title:  System Design
description: Leer het fundement, voordat je uberhaubt begint aan je website, om future-proof websites te maken.
---

> One of the best things I would suggest is to read [SRE-Engineer](https://sre.google/sre-book/table-of-contents/). It teaches you how google dealt with every scaling systems.

## Core Concepts in System Design

### 1. **Vertical Scaling**
   Increasing the resources (such as CPU, memory, or storage) of a single machine to improve its performance or handle higher workloads.

### 2. **Horizontal Scaling**
   Adding more servers to a system to distribute the workload and increase overall capacity and performance.

### 3. **Load Balancer**
   A network device or software that evenly distributes incoming network traffic across multiple servers or resources to optimize performance and ensure high availability.

### 4. **Content Delivery Networks (CDNs)**
   Distributed networks of servers located geographically closer to end users, designed to deliver web content efficiently by caching and serving it from nearby locations.

### 5. **Caching**
   The process of storing frequently accessed data or content in a temporary storage location (cache) to improve retrieval speed and reduce the need for repeated requests.
### 6. **Internet Protocol Address (IP)**
   A unique numerical label assigned to each device connected to a computer network.

### 7. **TCP (Transmission Control Protocol)**
   A communication protocol that ensures reliable, connection-oriented transmission of data by dividing it into smaller packets, numbering them, and reassembling them at the receiving end.

### 8. **DNS (Domain Name System)**
   A decentralized naming system that translates human-readable domain names into IP addresses.

### 9. **HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol)**
   A protocol that governs the communication between web browsers and servers, allowing for the retrieval and transfer of web pages and resources over the internet.

### 10. **REST (Representational State Transfer)**
   An approach to designing web services that uses standard HTTP methods and URLs to facilitate communication between clients and servers.

### 11. **GraphQL**
   A query language for APIs that provides a flexible and efficient way for clients to request and retrieve data from servers by allowing them to specify exactly what data they need. Using a single query, it can fetch multiple resources without overfetching.

### 12. **gRPC (Google Remote Procedure Call)**
   An open-source framework that enables efficient communication and interoperation between services by defining the interface and data contracts using Protocol Buffers, and facilitating bi-directional streaming and error handling.

### 13. **WebSockets**
   A communication protocol that provides full-duplex, real-time, and bidirectional communication between a client and a server over a single, long-lived connection. WebSockets are commonly used in applications such as chat systems or real-time collaboration tools.

## Databases and Data Management

### 14. **SQL (Structured Query Language)**
   A programming language used for managing and manipulating relational databases, allowing users to perform tasks such as querying data, defining database structure, and modifying data records. SQL is preferred for fast data retrieval.

### 15. **ACID Compliance**
   A set of properties that ensure reliability and integrity in database transactions, guaranteeing that they are executed reliably, consistently, and without interference.

### 16. **NoSQL Databases**
   A class of databases that provide flexible, schema-less data models and horizontal scalability, making them suitable for handling large volumes of unstructured or semi-structured data.

### 17. **Sharding**
   A technique in database management where data is horizontally divided and distributed across multiple servers or nodes to improve performance, scalability, and load balancing.

### 18. **Replication**
   The process of creating and maintaining identical copies of data across multiple servers or nodes, providing redundancy, fault tolerance, and improved data availability in distributed systems.

### 19. **CAP Theorem**
   The CAP theorem states that in a distributed system, it is impossible to simultaneously guarantee consistency, availability, and partition tolerance, and therefore, trade-offs must be made between these three properties.

## Distributed Systems and Communication

### 20. **Message Queues**
   Message queues are like databases with durable storage. They can be replicated for redundancy or sharded for scalability. Commonly used for task distribution and workload decoupling.
