---
title: GUI
description: The visual frontier of user interaction, where neon-lit icons and intuitive design make navigating the digital realm a tactile pleasure.
---

Once you have kali/ubuntu installed, wheter it's on `bare metal`, in a `virtual machine`, using a `hypervisor`, in windows with `WSL` by installing `win-kex` to pull up a GUI.

The general configuration is all the same.

## Lab Setup

The tools that we will be using are all free, but because of this benefit, there are some limitations. For example, the free community edition of Burp Suite throttles scans to the point where it becomes unrealistic to use in a professional setting.

So, I do advise you to upgrade to professional/enterprise versions of applications when you move into that setting. For the purpose of this course, you will be able to learn the tools and techniques without paying for software upgrades.

## Update Kali

Once you have your Kali VM up and running, open the Kali Linux Terminal and use the following commands to update your system:

```shell
sudo apt update -y
sudo apt upgrade -y
sudo apt dist-upgrade -y
```

## Update User Accounts

When starting a new operating system it is always a great idea to update default credentials:

```shell
sudo passwd kali    # enter in a new more complex password
sudo useradd -m hapihacker
sudo usermod -a -G sudo hapihacker
sudo chsh -s /bin/zsh hapihacker
```

## Burp Suite Community Edition

Burp Suite should come stock with the latest version of Kali, but if it does not then use the following command:

```shell
sudo apt-get install burpsuite -y
```

Download [Jython](https://www.jython.org/download.html) and add the .jar file to the Extender Options.

Under the Extender BApp Store search for Autorize and install the extension.

## Foxy Proxy Standard

While Firefox is open use the shortcut CTRL+Shift+A or navigate to [Firefox Addons](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon).

1. Search for FoxyProxy Standard.
2. Add FoxyProxy to Firefox.
3. Install FoxyProxy Standard and add it to your browser.
4. Click the fox icon at the top-right corner of your browser (next to the URL) and select Options.
5. Select Proxies >Add New Proxy >Manual Proxy Configuration.
6. Add 127.0.0.1 as the host IP address.
7. Update the port to 8080 (Burp Suite’s default proxy settings).
8. Under the General tab, rename the proxy to BurpSuite.
9. Add a second new proxy:
   1. Add 127.0.0.1 as the host IP address.
   2. Update the port to 5555
   3. Under the General tab, rename the proxy to Postman

## Burp Suite Certificate

1. Start Burp Suite.
2. Open your browser of choice.
3. Using FoxyProxy, select the BurpSuite proxy. Navigate to <http://burpsuite> and click the CA Certificate. This should initiate the download of the Burp Suite CA certificate.
4. Save the certificate somewhere you can find it.
5. Open your browser and import the certificate. In Firefox, open Preferences and use the search bar to look up certificates. Import the certificate.
6. In Chrome, open Settings, use the search bar to look up certificates, select More>Manage Certificates>Authorities, and import the certificate. If you do not see the BurpSuite cacert.der certificate. (You may need to expand the file type options to “DER” or “All files").

Now that you have the PortSwigger CA certificate added to your browser, you should be able to intercept traffic without experiencing issues.

## MITMweb Certificate Setup

1. Stop Burp Suite (it's listening on 8080 and mitmweb needs that to work)
2. Start mitmweb from the terminal:

   ```shell
   mitmweb
   ```

3. Use FoxyProxy in Firefox to send traffic to the BurpSuite proxy (8080).
4. Using Firefox Visit [mitm.it](http://mitm.it).
5. Download the mitmproxy-ca-cert.pem for Firefox.
6. Return to the Firefox certificates (see Burp Suite Certificate instructions).
7. Import the MITMweb (mitmproxy-ca-cert.pem) certificate.

## Install Postman

```shell
sudo wget https://dl.pstmn.io/download/latest/linux64 -O postman-linux-x64.tar.gz && sudo tar -xvzf postman-linux-x64.tar.gz -C /opt && sudo ln -s /opt/Postman/Postman /usr/bin/postman
```

## Install mitmproxy2swagger

```shell
sudo pip3 install mitmproxy2swagger
```

## Install Git

```shell
sudo apt-get install git
```

## Install Docker

```shell
sudo apt-get install docker.io docker-compose
```

## Install Go

```shell
sudo apt install golang-go
```

## The JSON Web Token Toolkit v2

```shell
cd /opt
sudo git clone https://github.com/ticarpi/jwt_tool
cd jwt_tool
python3 -m pip install termcolor cprint pycryptodomex requests
```

(Optional) Make an alias for jwt_tool.py

```shell
sudo chmod +x jwt_tool.py
sudo ln -s /opt/jwt_tool/jwt_tool.py /usr/bin/jwt_tool
```

## Install Sublime Text

Install the GPG key:

```shell
wget -qO - https://download.sublimetext.com/sublimehq-pub.gpg | gpg --dearmor | sudo tee /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/sublimehq-archive.gpg > /dev/null
```

Select the Stable channel:

```shell
echo "deb https://download.sublimetext.com/ apt/stable/" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/sublime-text.list
```

Update apt sources and install Sublime Text:

```shell
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install sublime-text
```

## Install Kiterunner

```shell
sudo git clone  https://github.com/assetnote/kiterunner.git
cd kiterunner
sudo make build
sudo ln -s /opt/kiterunner/dist/kr /usr/bin/kr
```

## Install Arjun

```shell
sudo git clone https://github.com/s0md3v/Arjun.git
```

markdown

## Install OWASP ZAP

```shell
sudo apt install zaproxy
```

Once ZAP is installed, make sure to navigate to the Manage Add-Ons (CTRL+U). Make sure to apply updates for the Fuzzer and OpenAPI Support.

## Useful Wordlists

SecLists: GitHub Repository

```shell
sudo wget -c https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists/archive/master.zip -O SecList.zip \
&& sudo unzip SecList.zip \
&& sudo rm -f SecList.zip
```

Hacking-APIs: [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists)

```shell
sudo wget -c https://github.com/hAPI-hacker/Hacking-APIs/archive/refs/heads/main.zip -O HackingAPIs.zip \
&& sudo unzip HackingAPIs.zip \
&& sudo rm -f HackingAPIs.zip
```

Once you have these tools installed and updated you should be ready.
