---
title: Windows 10 Workstation
description: This lab focuses on the basic principles of common Windows enterprise environments
---

A lot of cyberattacks occur in Windows-based environments, making it essential to have a lab environment for training and improving your DFIR (Digital Forensics and Incident Response) skills. A single Windows system is often enough to start an investigation and practice critical DFIR skills, such as data acquisition, disk forensic, memory forensic, and malware analysis.

::callout
---
icon: i-mdi:nuxt
target: _blank
to: https://bluecapesecurity.com/build-your-lab/basic-lab/
---
[Read more about the setup on BlueCapSecurity](https://bluecapesecurity.com/build-your-lab/basic-lab/)
::

- **Skills to Practice**:
  - Virtualization
  - Data acquisition
  - Disk forensic
  - Memory forensic
  - Malware analysis

- **Basic DFIR Lab Architecture**:
  - 1 x Windows 10 VM

- **Requirements**:
  - 2-4 GB of memory


## Setup Instructions

This guide provides steps for installing VirtualBox and setting up a Windows 10 virtual machine (VM). If you do not have your own Windows licenses, the good news is that Windows trial versions are available for use.

- **Estimated Time**: ~ 30 mins

## 1 Download and Install the Virtualization Software
1. **Select Your Virtualization Software**: Based on the Virtualization Primer, choose your preferred virtualization tool. This guide uses **VirtualBox**.
2. **Install VirtualBox**: Follow the installation prompts to set up VirtualBox on your host machine.

## 2 Download and Install a Windows 10 VM

1. **Get the Windows 10 ISO**:
   - You can obtain a 90-day Windows 10/11 trial version from the [Microsoft Evaluation Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/evalcenter/). Registration is required.
   - Alternatively, you can refer to a post on the [Microsoft Tech Community](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/) that provides direct download links for Windows ISOs.
2. **Create a New VM in VirtualBox**:
   - In VirtualBox, click **New** to create a new machine:
     - **Version**: Windows 10 (64-bit)
     - **Memory**: Allocate at least **2 GB**, ideally **4 GB (4096 MB)**
     - **Hard Disk**: Create a virtual hard disk (VDI)
       - **File Size**: Set at least **40 GB**
       - **Storage**: Use **dynamically allocated** to save disk space
   - Click **Create**.
3. **Configure the VM Before Installation**:
   - Right-click the VM and select **Settings**:
     - **System -> Processor**: Set the number of processors to **at least 2**.
     - **Storage**: Click on the "Empty" disk under **Controller: IDE**.
       - Click the **disk symbol** next to the Optical Drive selection field and select **Choose a disk file...**.
       - Attach the previously downloaded Windows 10 ISO.
     - **Network**: The default mode is set to **NAT**, which allows internet access through the guest system.
4. **Start the VM** and click through the **Windows 10 installation process**:
   - When prompted, **skip product key entry**.
   - Select **Windows 10 Pro** as the operating system.
   - Choose a **Custom** installation to install a new, clean system.
   - Create an **offline account** by skipping the online setup and defining a **username and password**.
   - Disable all privacy features and **Cortana** when prompted to limit performance requirements.

## 3 Finish the Setup

1. **Install VirtualBox Guest Additions** (recommended):
   - This step is covered in the Virtualization Primer. Guest Additions enhance user experience by providing full-screen display, shared folders, copy & paste, etc. These features need to be enabled in the VM settings after installation.
2. **Take a Snapshot**: Once the VM is set up and powered off, take a snapshot. This will allow you to revert back to a clean environment when needed.

