---
title: Collaboration
description: Teamwork makes the dream work.
---

## Git Branch

Branches are a way for developers to work on different features of a codebase on a seperate branch.

That way they're not polluting the main and tested working code and can branch off from the main three trunk and do their own thing.

It's pretty common in the real world to rename the master branch to the main branch:

```[termimal]
git branch -M main
```

List out branches:

```[termimal]
git branch
```

Create a new branch:

```[termimal]
git branch awesome
```

Delete it in a more safer way and only delete it if it hasn't been merged in the to master branch or if it has no changes on it.

Delete a branch -d

```
git branch -d awesome
```

Delete it in a no turning back manner.

```
git branch -D awesome
```

## Git Checkout

Move between branches in git

Move into a branch:

```
git checkout <branch>
```

Create a new branch and move into it:

```
git checkout -b awesome
````

Move to previous branch

```
git checkout -
```

## How Merge Conflicts Happen

Create a new branch and move into it:

Merge conflicts happen when two commits affect the same line of code at the same time.

1 Feature branch modifies line 5 and commits.
2 Master branch modifies line 5 and commits.
3 Master branch tries to merge feature branch.

Here’s how a merge conflict looks from the command line:

```
git branch feature
# make some changes
git commit -am "awesome branch stuff"

git checkout master
# make some changes to same code
git commit -am "master branch stuff"

git merge feature
# CONFLICT!
```

## Explore a Merge Conflict

Use git diff to compare the changes in the feature branch and master branch.

```[terminal]
git diff
```

## Fix A Merge Conflict

git commit -am "master branch stuff"

```[terminal]
git commit -am "master branch stuff"
```

If you’re not sure, you can abort:

```
git merge --abort
```

## Git Fork

What the hell is a fork on GitHub?

If your serious about working on an open source project you may want your own version of the code, hosted on hithub.

When you click the button to fork a repo on github. It will copy that repo to your own account.

That allows you to make changes to it without affection your own repository.

At the same time it maintains a length to the original repo where you can fetch updates.

The original is know as the upstream repository.

A common thing developers will do is work on a repo to develop some kind of new feature then send a pull request to merge that code into the original from the fork.

The author from the original can then review your changes and decide wheter or not they want to merge your code.

## The 3 Diff File Areas

### Working DIR

Your current working area

### Staging Area

Is created when using `git add `comment and view with `git tab`

### Commits

The state of files which you commited previously
